# Checkout App

[Saleor App](https://docs.saleor.io/docs/3.x/developer/extending/apps/key-concepts) for payment gateways configuration and layout customisation of [Saleor Checkout](https://github.com/saleor/saleor-checkout/blob/main/apps/checkout/README.md)

## Setup

### Development

Run the development server:

```bash
pnpm dev
```

Start tunnel, so that Checkout App is available from Internet for webhooks:

> Note: Make sure you've set `SALEOR_API_URL` in the root of the monorepo to your Saleor instance. You can also use other Saleor instance than the one defined in `.env` in root of monorepo - add `NEXT_PUBLIC_SALEOR_API_URL` env variable in `apps/saleor-app-checkout/.env.local` file with URL to your Saleor GrpahQL API endpoint

```bash
npx saleor app tunnel 3001
```

Choose **Yes** when asked if the app should be installed.

> Warning: Make sure that the app is running on port 3001 otherwise it won't be available from the tunnel
>
> ```bash
> lsof -i :3001
> ```

> Note: You can also use [`ngrok`](https://ngrok.com/), but you would need to update env variables each time you open tunnel (on free plan) with new domain `ngrok` assigned you.
>
> After you do that use `saleor app install` to install the app in your Saleor instance.
>
> The tunnel needs to use `https` protocol with valid SSL certificate, otherwise you won't receive webhook calls

After the app is installed in Saleor, a `.auth_token` file should be created with token used for authenticating requests made to your Saleor instance.

Open the app by using the tunnel URL received from `saleor app tunnel` (example: `https://saleor-app-checkout-xyz-my-org.saleor.live`) in your browser to see the result.

### Production

To build for production, run the following command:

```bash
cd ../.. && pnpm run build:saleor-app-checkout
```

> Note: The command needs to be run from root of the monorepo. Otherwise Turborepo won't be able to build the app

The deployed app needs to have auth token set manually by environment variable. Install the app in Saleor and use Saleor CLI to generate the token:

```
saleor app token
```

Then set the `SALEOR_APP_TOKEN` environment variable value to the token you've received from Saleor and **redeploy the app**.

## Env Variables

**Environment variables contain secrets that can lead to compromising your store data**

When **deploying** to Vercel you can set them on the [configuration page](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/environment-variables)

When running app **locally** you can use the [`.env.local`](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables#loading-environment-variables) file. **It should not be included in your git repository**.

### Backend variables

- `SALEOR_APP_TOKEN` — App's token generated by Saleor after the app was installed
- `SETTINGS_ENCRYPTION_SECRET` — Random string used for encrypting apps configuration

To generate a random secret you can use openssl:

```
openssl rand -hex 256
```

[Learn more](https://docs.saleor.io/docs/3.x/developer/extending/apps/installing-apps#installing-third-party-apps) about installing third-party apps in [Saleor docs](https://docs.saleor.io/docs/3.x/developer/extending/apps/installing-apps#installing-third-party-apps)

- `DEBUG_APP_URL` - URL to the deployed checkout app. Used when running app locally and tunneling requests by using `saleor tunnel`

> Warning: This variable should be used for local development only! It will be ignored in production deployment.
>
> In production this URL is taken from `Host` header in each request

### Frontend variables

Each variable starting with [`NEXT_PUBLIC`](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables#exposing-environment-variables-to-the-browser) is exposed to frontend

- `NEXT_PUBLIC_SALEOR_API_URL` — URL of your Saleor GraphQL API
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_CHECKOUT_APP_URL` – URL of this application (i.e. https://saleor-app-checkout.vercel.app)

> Note: by default `SALEOR_API_URL` env variable from root of monorepo is used for the value. If you want to customise it, you can add a separate `.env.local` file, which won't be stored in git repository

## Testing

To test React components you must use `jsdom` runtime (the default is `node`). Add this comment at the top of the test file:

```js
/** @jest-environment setup-polly-jest/jest-environment-node */
```

### Mocking requests

Mocking configuration works both in browser and Node environment

#### Recording

For mocking requests made in tests we use [Polly.js](https://netflix.github.io/pollyjs/#/). By default, if requests are made in tests and are not mocked the test will fail.

To record requests run tests by using the `test:record` command:

```
pnpm run test:record
```

This command sets `POLLY_MODE` env variable to `record`.

Recordings are stored in `recordings` folder.

#### Manual mocks

To write manual mocks we use [Mock Service Worker](https://mswjs.io/) library. Any REST API route or GraphQL operation that is mocked using `msw` won't be recorded by Polly.js.

Mocks for msw are located in `mocks/handlers`

## Checkout Storefront

Checkout Storefront is available at [/checkout-spa](../saleor-app-checkout/pages/checkout-spa.tsx).

You'll need a token to use the checkout. A new checkout session can be generated either in your storefront or in the GraphQL Playground. You could use a preexisting checkout as well.

> ⚠️ Note that if a given checkout has customer already attached, it'll become private, and **you won't be able to fetch its data from the api** without the same customer being logged in your current browser. Checkout uses [Saleor SDK](https://github.com/saleor/saleor-sdk) for authentication.

To generate checkout in GraphQL API and retrieve its `id`:

```graphql
mutation {
  checkoutCreate(
    input: {
      channel: "default-channel"
      lines: [{ variantId: "UHJvZHVjdFZhcmlhbnQ6MjAz", quantity: 1 }]
    }
  ) {
    checkout {
      id
    }
  }
}
```

Learn more about creating checkout sessions in [Saleor docs](https://docs.saleor.io/docs/3.x/developer/checkout#creating-a-checkout-session)

Open [localhost:3001/checkout-spa?checkout=<ID>](http://localhost:3001/checkout-spa?checkout=) in your browser and add the your token to the url.

### More info

See [checkout-storefront package](../../packages/checkout-storefront/README.md) for more information.
